>> Jem Young: All right,
so that was part six.
That wasn't that bad.
It's just pure lecture,
we installed the database.
Last part, talking about containers,
orchestration, and
automating our deployments.
So what's a container?
Anybody?
You've probably heard the phrase,
it's kind of hip.
Like cloud computing was using
that phrase a couple years ago.
Containers.
>> Speaker 2: It's kind
of like a hypervisor, but
it loves at a different level I think,
for like a virtual machine.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, hypervisor,
virtual machines, big words, I like it.
You're right,
a container is just the application,
rather than an entire operating system.
So let's talk a little bit more, because
it's important you leave the room, and you
might not implement it, but you understand
when someone says containers or hypervisor
that you know what they are talking about,
cuz you're a full stack engineer now.
You made it through part two,
just about, it's the last part.
So from the first section, we remember
that a VPS, virtual private server,
is just one dedicated server and
we just have little chunks.
So my digital server, it's just,
it's a little chunk of a larger server.
It's not a little box running
somewhere in the room.
It's just part of a larger server.
That's what a VPS does,
it breaks it into little chunks, and
remember that VPS, you put them
all together equals the cloud.
I still see people like airport ads,
I think targeted people that don't know,
they're like, do you know the cloud?
I'm like, yeah, I know the cloud.
I know a few [INAUDIBLE],
jeez, I'm insulted really.
But that's a VPS.
A container is,
it's just the application run on VPS.
So take your VPS, segment it even more for
just the applications that are running,
that's a container, just one application.
So right now our server
that's running right now,
we have nginx which is an application,
we have mysql, we have node running.
These are all separate
applications of one large server.
With the container I would just
run node in some container,
I'd run mysql in some container,
I'd run nginx in the some container.
Why would I do that?
What's kind of the efficiency
you think we'd get out of that?
Anybody, I mean,
I have bullet points ready.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: That you're only
paying for what you're using?
>> Jem Young: No, not really,
but that's a good guess.
The benefit of a container
versus a virtual machine,
which is what we are running on now,
which is just a fake server.
It looks like it's own machine, but
it's really a part of a larger machine,
is that we don't have to
install an operating system.
There is no overhead for things like that.
We can share all of our resources, but
only the ones that need to be shared.
So, if my notes ever goes haywire,
it starts writing log files everywhere,
it won't affect the other operations
on the server versus now,
if my node server goes haywire and
starts messing up the caches for
everybody else,
it's gonna take down the entire server.
That's some of the benefits of
a container versus an entire vps,
which is what we're running now.
The second benefit is fast deployment.
So rather than reinstantiating an entire
new server every single time we wanna
make a new node app,
we just pick container for that, and
deploy that out to a server
that's already running.
When we wanna update that,
we just deploy that out too the same way.
Containers, it's nuance that I don't
think before this course you would
have understood the nuance of it,
but now you do a little bit more.
>> Speaker 4: So is it the concept,
or just the concept, or it's-
>> Jem Young: No, it's a real thing.
No it's not a, that's a good question.
There are things that are concepts
of how we do server deployments.
Things like that,
like containerization, but
these are actual different
processes that run.
So you mentioned hypervisor.
A hypervisor is essentially
virtual machine that access,
I'm gonna run I'm gonna run
one instance of the Ubuntu,
I'm gonna run a instance all in one
server, but hypervisor manages that.
So it manages the scheduling of the CPU,
so it's saying, you get a chunk,
you get a chunk, you get a chunk.
That's what a hypervisor does,
and it runs a virtual machine.
Instead of that, we just have one machine
and the container manages that for you.
It's nuance, but
I have some diagrams that'll hopefully
make it a little bit more clear.
So, why, again, why do we wanna container?
Because this is an example of
the Netflix infrastructure.
The names are different obviously, but
this is a real tool we
use called Visceral, and
it's a real time traffic map about
what's happening on the Netflix cluster.
We have thousands, and thousands,
and thousands, and thousands,
and thousands of servers.
It's unimaginable.
I forget the exact count,
but there's a lot.
I forget how many, so I work in, would
be probably this, something like this.
I work on the node app which is where
all the request eventually hit.
There are some layers before that,
but I work on one small section.
There's all these other
microservices running at Netflix.
So why is it that we use containers
over a bunch of virtual machines?
Well, because it's faster, because we have
all these things that we need to update,
we need to take down.
We don't want it to impact
other people's' workload, but
we also don't wanna bring up new servers,
cuz as we've all known,
bringing up a new server,
it's not necessarily that fast.
It can be slow, there can be issues,
especially when you bring it up,
10,000 of them at the same time, or
something like that to process videos.
Why would we do that?
We can have servers running and then
swap out the containers as needed, and
they handle the resource management for
us.
I have another diagram.
Even better, cuz I have many diagrams,
cuz containers are a little bit tricky.
So this is a virtual machine.
This is what we're running
right now on our web server.
We have our apps, so we have Node, we have
NGINX, MySQL, Postgres, things like that.
We have all these apps running.
They interact with the libraries,
the applications,
that interact with the kernel.
So instead of that,
we have a container on this side.
Container has its own
libraries that it needs.
So NGINX needs to know about like our
socket library, things like that.
That's all self-contained
in its own container, and
then that all interacts with
the kernel instead of going through all
these separate libraries that
are shared by everybody.
How to make sense of it, these are the
things that only make sense at scale.
You wouldn't have to do it for,
I don't know, ten servers.
You'd probably get ahead of yourself.
But when you talk about scaling,
containers are definitely the way
that most companies are going now.
It's just more efficient.
So, the big word you hear
in containers is Docker.
Everybody heard of Docker at some point?
Yeah, Docker is a container
management tool essentially.
You can create containers to ploy
them out, it helps manage the memory,
the bandwidth, things like that, make
sure the libraries are self-incapsulated,
that's what Docker does.
We're not gonna go through that today,
cuz that's a whole other course.
But, just so you know when someone's like,
yeah, use Docker, and things like that,
you know exactly what they're
talking about at this point.
A Docker setup looks something like this,
and there's a link at the bottom if you
wanted to create a Docker container,
install Postgres.
It's a bit tedious, it's a bit kind of
nuanced, but look, it's just running,
I won't say shell commands, but
it looks kind of like shell commands,
we're just running a bunch
of scripts like that.
That's what a Docker setup does, but
the benefit is, once you make a container
once, so you make the script
to create a Docker instance,
you can just create 20 of them at once.
So rather than us going through the same
steps we did over and over and over again,
we can just do it once, and it's always
gonna run the same way every single time.
That's pretty cool.
All right?
Good so far, yes?
>> Speaker 5: So it's not that Docker
is a language analagous to Bash,
right, it's that it's a program or
something like a kernel
almost that takes in Bash and
then processes that or
takes in a shell right?
>> Jem Young: Not
necessarily shell language.
This is just one instance of
how to create Docker commands.
It's his own,
dockers are container manager.
So it's a way of bringing up containers.
Let me step back.
So we have virtual machine.
We all know what a virtual machine is now,
it's that little chunk of
a server that we're running.
Docker is essentially a virtual machine,
nobody's assuming it's not a virtual
machine, but think of it like that, but
instead of machines it
brings up containers, and
it manages all the containers
just like a virtual machine does.
Yeah, it's yeah, like I said, it's a
little tricky, but I just wanted everybody
to get a look at it so we understand what
a container are, what a Docker does.